Dear Roni:

We are pleased to inform you that your submission

17: Stronger Privacy Preserving Projections for Multi-Agent Planning

has been accepted for presentation at ICAPS 2016. Congratulations!

The overall quality of submissions was high and the review process was
very selective. Across all tracks we received 184 submissions and we
accepted 65 (=35%).

Please note that at least one author of each accepted paper must
register and present the work at the conference, to be held in
London, UK on June 12-17, 2016.

Each paper was reviewed by three program committee members. After the
author response, the reviewers discussed each paper and in many cases
reviews and recommendations were updated. In some cases, additional
reviews were solicited to increase the confidence about the
recommendations. All recommendations of the program committee were
reviewed by the program chairs, and often additional steps were taken
to reach a final decision.

Copies of the reviews of your submission are appended below. You can
also see the reviews by logging in to EasyChair.

In many cases, the reviewers have provided specific recommendations
for how to improve your paper. We expect that you will take their
advice seriously and work to incorporate their suggestions. Details
on camera-ready submission will be provided in the coming weeks.

We thank you for submitting your work to ICAPS 2016 and look forward
to seeing you in London this summer!

Sincerely,

Amanda Coles, Stefan Edelkamp, and Scott Sanner, ICAPS 2016 Program Chairs
Gabriella Cortellessa and Neil Yorke-Smith, Novel Application Track Chairs
Nick Hawes and AndreA Orlandini, Robotics Track Chairs
Andrew Coles and Daniele Magazzeni, ICAPS 2016 Conference Chairs


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 17
TITLE: Stronger Privacy Preserving Projections for Multi-Agent Planning
AUTHORS: Guy Shani, Shlomi Maliah and Roni Stern

OVERALL EVALUATION: 2 (accept)
(Applications track ONLY): Importance (economic, societal, etc) of the application problem being addressed.: 5 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Applications track ONLY): Novelty of the application and technical approach to the application.: 5 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Applications track ONLY): Importance of planning/scheduling technology to the solution of the problem.: 5 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Applications track ONLY) Maturity.: 6 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Robotics track ONLY): Balance of Robotics and Automated Planning and Scheduling: 6 (N/A (not a Robotics track paper))
(Robotics Track ONLY): Evaluation on physical platforms/simulators: 6 (N/A (not a Robotics track paper))
(Robotics Track ONLY): Significance of the contribution: 6 (N/A (not a Robotics track paper))
(Applications and Robotics tracks ONLY): Suitable for a demo?: 4 (N/A (not an Applications or Robotics track paper))
Nominate for Best Paper Award: 1 (no)
Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (if eligible): 1 (no)

----------- REVIEW -----------
This paper presents a more powerful method for projecting a MA planning problem than the original public projection of Nissim and Brafman. It is basically an efficient way of implementing the following high-level idea (which, as noted by the authors, go back to the original work on factored planning): plan for the public part, and then let the agents complete the private parts. Earlier work on this, such as planning first (which followed this approach) and Nissim and Brafman (which used it for a heuristic) used methods that were not nearly as sophisticated, and therefore not nearly as effective.
The basic idea here is to somehow compensate for the missing information in the form of missing private preconditions in the projection, by adding additional dependency on public actions that can achieve these preconditions. This is done by using regression on a modified domain.

Overall, I think this is a very interesting method, that works well in practice, and I liked the paper. The paper also makes a contribution to the (still somewhat immature) literature on privacy in MA planning, by suggesting the idea of cardinality preserving privacy. I would have preferred a full proof that the algorithm maintains this property, but the sketch is reasonably convincing.

Strengths: Very nice algorithm. Performs very well on benchmarks. New notions of privacy which the algorithm satisfies.
Weakness: I think a better job can be done describing the algorithm (more below). You should say out straight in the intro that this is not a complete method.

When you describe the a_b actions, I would suggest an overview of them before you start the different subsections of 4.
In the subsections, too, a high-level description of the idea to start with would be useful.
It would be nice if you could use the projection as a heuristic for forward search. Perhaps this would be used if you cannot complete the projection. I wonder how much more informative it is.
I would also try harder to find an example in which you cannot extend a solution. That would also help clarify the soundness issue. (BTW -- I'm not sure I like your sound and complete issues. If you consider your algorithm, it is sound if the solution it generates is sound -- which is always true, and it is complete if it finds a solution, which is true if you projection is "sound" in your terms, and that is very odd).
In definition 4, replace facilitates with a precise term.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 17
TITLE: Stronger Privacy Preserving Projections for Multi-Agent Planning
AUTHORS: Guy Shani, Shlomi Maliah and Roni Stern

OVERALL EVALUATION: 0 (borderline paper)
(Applications track ONLY): Importance (economic, societal, etc) of the application problem being addressed.: 5 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Applications track ONLY): Novelty of the application and technical approach to the application.: 5 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Applications track ONLY): Importance of planning/scheduling technology to the solution of the problem.: 5 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Applications track ONLY) Maturity.: 6 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Robotics track ONLY): Balance of Robotics and Automated Planning and Scheduling: 6 (N/A (not a Robotics track paper))
(Robotics Track ONLY): Evaluation on physical platforms/simulators: 6 (N/A (not a Robotics track paper))
(Robotics Track ONLY): Significance of the contribution: 6 (N/A (not a Robotics track paper))
(Applications and Robotics tracks ONLY): Suitable for a demo?: 4 (N/A (not an Applications or Robotics track paper))
Nominate for Best Paper Award: 1 (no)
Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (if eligible): 1 (no)

----------- REVIEW -----------
In this article, authors propose a new technique to solve centralized cooperative Multi-Agent Planning (MAP) problems by means of a novel, more informed form of projection, the Dependency-Preserving (DP) projection. Based on this new projection, authors developed a planner that outperforms all the participants of the 2015 Competition of Distributed and Multi-Agent Planners (CoDMAP).

According to the authors, their paper introduces two main contributions: the novel DP projection, and a new privacy definition, the object cardinality privacy.

Based on the DP projection, authors propose a privacy-preserving planning scheme based on MA-STRIPS. The DP projection is used by a single-agent planner, FD, to create a high-level plan. Then, the multi-agent solution plan is completed by extending the high-level plan with private actions through the FF planner. While this scheme is not particularly original in the centralized cooperative MAP state of the art, authors claim that their DP-based planner clearly outperforms the participants of the CoDMAP, thus bringing an apparent breakthrough in this research field.

Regarding the introduction, I think that authors could have made an extra effort at motivating their work. First, authors use the acronym CPPP (collaborative privacy-preserving planning) to identify their approach. I am not familiar with such term but I believe they refer to privacy-preserving centralized cooperative MAP.  Second and most importantly, authors do not present a review of the state of the art in centralized MAP. Only a handful of works, such as MAFS or MA-STRIPS, are mentioned in the introduction, and there is not a proper Related Work section to position the authors’ approach in the literature.

Sections 3 and 4 are devoted to present the new DP projection and compare it to the classical, local projection frequently used in centralized MAP. The DP projection takes account of the private dependencies of other agents' actions, which drastically improves the accuracy of the high-level plans obtained through this projection.

I am concerned about the writing of section 4, which contains many typos (see typos list below) and is clearly poorer than the previous sections of the article. This is relevant because most of the technical content of the paper, as well as its main scientific contribution, is presented in this particular section. I strongly recommend the authors to revise the whole section and rewrite it, if necessary.

Additionally, I found some easy-to-fix mistakes in this part of the paper regarding figures. Authors make several references to a logistics example in figure 2. However, authors describe it as a problem with 6 trucks and 2 packages, which seems to refer to the unused figure 1 (page 2). On the other hand, the trucks do not appear in figure 1, so I advise the authors to revise both figures and update the paper accordingly.

Section 5 introduces a new notion of privacy, object cardinality privacy, a good tradeoff between the strong privacy defined by Brafman and the weak privacy employed in obfuscation-based planners such as MAPR. Moreover, authors prove that the DP projection ensures object cardinality privacy.

My major concern is related to the experimental results in section 6. Authors claim that DPP, their DP-based planner, outperforms the best-performing MAP systems that took part in the centralized track of the 2015 CoDMAP. However, given the experimental evaluation provided by the authors, I am not sure about the significance of the DP projection:

- First, I am not sure whether authors have tested all the planners under the same conditions. Apparently, they have reused the CoDMAP results for the rest of planners in the comparison. The machine used by the authors to test DPP features 4 cores and 32 GB of memory, while the machine of the centralized track of the CoDMAP had 4 cores and 8 GB RAM. It is true that the authors do not compare execution times, but running the rest of planners in such a powerful machine could have noticeably improved their coverage figures. This may invalidate the results, or at least pose some doubts on the authors’ claim.

- Authors recognize that the main difference between DPP and the rest of planners is that DPP uses “an off-the-shelf classical planner, rather than a coordinated joint search mechanism”. This is not exactly true since, for example, GPPP does use a coordinated search mechanism while agents in MAPR plan sequentially, extending the previous agent’s solution. At least, authors should have included a table comparing the features of each planner (see the comparison of features included in http://agents.fel.cvut.cz/codmap/results/presentation-RESULTS.pdf).

- In my opinion, the impressive coverage results obtained by DPP do not clarify the significance of the DP projection. I would have rather modified an existing projection-based planner with the DP to verify to which extent the DP projection improves the performance of projection-based MAP.

All in all, I think this is a flawed but interesting research article. On the one hand, the DP projection is a technique that apparently improves the accuracy of privacy-preserving techniques. The object cardinality privacy is a less relevant contribution in my opinion. I think the writing of the technical explanation on the construction of the DP projection could be improved, and I believe the experimental results are flawed and can be a bit misleading, since the DPP planner is completely based on classical solvers and it was run in a far more powerful machine than the rest of planners.

In conclusion, I think that the two individual contributions presented by the authors may not be significant enough to justify an ICAPS long paper. Additionally, while the planner developed by the authors seems to push forward the state of the art in MAP in terms of performance, I have some concerns about the validity of the results.


Typos:

- Abstract:

by their private FACTS
is able TO solve

- Page 1, Column 1, Paragraph 1:

challenging domains THAT are constantly

- P1,C2,P4:

solution to the multi-agent planning TASK, and
of this type use a MULTI-AGENT planning mechanism

- P2,C1,P4:

showing it to both PRESERVE object

- P3,C2,P5:

the local view of the other agents DOES not include

- P4,C2,P3:

for executing other PUBLIC actions

- Example 4.1:

Please verify the format of the actions: (unload p t A) or unload p t A?

- P5,C2,P5:

represents). The actions in b or the action a itself may ruin

- P6,C1,P1:

We create three projected ACTIONS

- P6,C1,P3:

of each AGENT are true.
private facts are true in the initial STATE.

- P6,C1,P4:

constructs for EACH of its public ACTIONS
- P7,C1,P3:

On the other hand, the DP PROJECTION does not

- P8,C1,P3:

DPP is the BEST-PERFORMING planner


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 17
TITLE: Stronger Privacy Preserving Projections for Multi-Agent Planning
AUTHORS: Guy Shani, Shlomi Maliah and Roni Stern

OVERALL EVALUATION: 1 (weak accept)
(Applications track ONLY): Importance (economic, societal, etc) of the application problem being addressed.: 5 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Applications track ONLY): Novelty of the application and technical approach to the application.: 5 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Applications track ONLY): Importance of planning/scheduling technology to the solution of the problem.: 5 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Applications track ONLY) Maturity.: 6 (N/A (not an Applications track paper))
(Robotics track ONLY): Balance of Robotics and Automated Planning and Scheduling: 6 (N/A (not a Robotics track paper))
(Robotics Track ONLY): Evaluation on physical platforms/simulators: 6 (N/A (not a Robotics track paper))
(Robotics Track ONLY): Significance of the contribution: 6 (N/A (not a Robotics track paper))
(Applications and Robotics tracks ONLY): Suitable for a demo?: 4 (N/A (not an Applications or Robotics track paper))
Nominate for Best Paper Award: 1 (no)
Nominate for Best Student Paper Award (if eligible): 1 (no)

----------- REVIEW -----------
This paper deals with the privacy preserving multi-agent problem and proposes a new projection of it onto a classical single-agent planning problem called "dependency-preserving". This projection is collectively generated by all the agents, which are allowed to share information about private dependancies without breaking privacy. The authors prove the viability of their approach by providing experimental results that show that their planner solve more benchmark problems than any other start-of-the-art privacy preserving planner.

I like the ideas behind the paper. It is interesting to see how classical planning can be used to tackle the privacy preserving multi-agent problem and how a strong form of privacy can be ensured. The paper is well written and clear. Sometimes, I find the choice of what it is introduced formally and what not slightly puzzling, but in general the paper  reads well and seems to be sound.

The paper would be stronger if the authors discussed realistic examples in which their technique would be particularly useful. I don't find Blocksworld or Logistic so suggestive as examples of privacy preserving scenarios. I know that they come from the competition, but some real-world scenarios would improve the paper.

The authors do not specify in detail how the high-level plans are extended by using private actions. It would be good to add such a discussion.

The authors say that the complexity is not problematic in the competition domains, but a more comprehensive analysis should be added as well as a discussion of when and what happens when the generated high level plan cannot be extended to a complete plan.

As for the experiments, the cases in which DPP does not perform well in Table 1 should be analysed better.

The manuscript needs copy-editing (please don't use a comma to separate the subject from the verb).

Minor comments:

Introduction:
- Citations need to be added in support of general statements such as, for example, the one at the end of the first paragraph.
- Instead of the Blocksworld domain, could the authors use a more realistic and interesting example?

Section 2, second column (and throughout the paper): do you mean Figure 1?
Section 2.1: a citation is needed after MA-STRIPS

Section 4: can the authors introduce alpha(a) formally?


-------------------------  METAREVIEW  ------------------------
PAPER: 17
TITLE: Stronger Privacy Preserving Projections for Multi-Agent Planning

In this article, authors propose a new technique to solve centralized cooperative Multi-Agent Planning (MAP) problems by means of a novel, more informed form of projection, the Dependency-Preserving (DP) projection. Given this projection, the agents can generate a skeleton plan consisting of public actions only,
which is then extended by each agent to a complete plan independently. Whereas in the basic projection agent use the public actions with their private parts removed, in this projection agents perform a cooperating computation that leads to a more informed projection. Given a more informed projection,
the likelihood that a skeleton plan can be extended to a full plan is much higher. However, even with this method, the ability to extend a skeleton plan is not guaranteed, and the method is not complete.
Nevertheless, this problem did not arise in the experimental evaluation. The authors suggest that if the method fails to extend the skeleton plan, then a second complete phase could be initiated. Based on this new projection, authors developed a planner that outperforms all the participants of the 2015 Competition of Distributed and Multi-Agent Planners (CoDMAP).

In addition, the authors introduce a new notion of privacy, cardinality privacy, which guarantees that other agents cannot deduce the domain size of various variables. More careful work on defining privacy is only emerging, and this seems a useful notion. The authors show that their method satisfies this notion of privacy.

In the initial review rev1 supported, rev2 was slightly negative, and rev3 slightly positive. rev2 raised concerns regarding the experimental results and initially felt the contribution may not be significant enough and that the value of the privacy notion is unclear. rev3 asked for better analysis of the issue of completeness, and how it is dealt with, and of the cases where the method fails. In addition, rev3 asked for more realistic motivating scenarios. All reviewers mentioned a various presentation issues.

In their response, the authors explained better the experimental set-up and discussed the issue of completeness. Rev2 is satisfied with the explanation of the experiments and also with the privacy definition, but finds that the collaborative construction of the DP-projection would need some more elaboration as well as the maintenance of the object-cardinality property in the algorithm. Rev3 was also satisfied with the explanation of the experiments, but less so with the explanation of the issue of completeness.

Overall, I think reviewers 1 and 3 support acceptance, and reviewer 2 is borderline, but seems more positive than negative.