Editor: as one reviewer pointed out that this submission is a merging of two published papers, so it is important authors need to clarify what improvements have been made.

Reviewer #1: This paper studies the problem of finding social network profiles related to a given target in a social networ, which is an interesting problem. The authors proposed two frameworks and a number of heuristic rules for this problem. Extensive experiment studies are conducted to validate the frameworks and heuristic rules.

1. The authors argue that this is an active area. However, all references in the paper were published in years ago. The authors should include some more recent papers in this area or related area.

2. Objective function. The authors define two objective functions, namely Anytime objective and Max-gain objectives. I would expect that the algorithm optimizes these two objective functions, i.e.,  minimizing IsLead() or Acquire() while maximizing #lead found. However, from the general framework (Algorithm 1), I cannot see how this algorithm takes the number of  IsLead() or Acqure() into consideration. So It is very difficult to validate if the algorithm has achieved the objectives. The authors should provide more analysis on how and why this algorithm can accept as input and optimize these objective functions.

3. There are several typos and inconsistency between Algorithm 1 and its explanation in Page 6.

a. Line 12,18 in Algorithm 1: CGK --> CKG?
b. Page 6, Second Column, Line 50-54: "OPEN is updated with newly found potential leads (the neighbors of best seen for the first time)". In algorithm 1, PL is updated rather than OPEN;
c. Page 6, Second Column, Line 60: "updating CKG and OPEN with the resulting information (line 18)." In line 18 of algorithm 1, PL is updated instead of OPEN.

4. In Fig 4, the results are reported for anytime objective function. Here x-axis is the percentage of leads checked by IsLead() so far. I think it should also consider the Acquire() operation as well since the anytime objective function considers both IsLead() and Acquire().

5. The authors report the AUC values in Fig 11. It would be better to see the ROC curve as well.

6. The authors argue in their response to other reviewers that the paper mainly focused on the effectiveness of the exploration rather than the efficiency, then why do you use the terms "efficient exploration of social networks" in your title?


Reviewer #2: In this paper, the authors proposed the problem of TONIC, i.e., Target Oriented Network Intelligence Collection, to find social network profiles that contain information about a given target. They modeled this problem as searing an unknown graph. Two frameworks are proposed to solve this problem. Generally, this paper is well written, and it is a pleasure to read it. The technical part is solid with convincing experimental results. I especially  appreciate the authors' discussion about the ethical aspects in TONIC.  However, there are two minor issues that could be further improved:

1) Since this journal version is a unifying presentation of the two previously published papers, I strongly suggest the authors to
explicitly list the improvement of this paper. Currently, the difference from the conference version is not highlight directly.

2)The two operations  of  "IsLead" and "Profile acquisition" are the basis of the entire paper. To make the readers better understand this
paper, I suggest the authors to show a concrete example of how the two steps are involved with a detailed crawling process in TONIC.